Good morning
back live here.
So the goal for today is to get
well my goal for today is to maximize
the probability that we actually have
some sort of working world modelish
thing.
Um, there's been enough work
around this space at least
that
I don't know if I'm convinced that it's
like good and stable on its own. I think
with search at least there is.
But, uh, something kind of occurred to
me
this morning.
Let me get this started up and then I'll
explain um explain what I'm on about.
Hey Larry, welcome. Morning.
Uh I'll explain what I'm on about in one
one moment.
Hey, Ken.
Okay, so
Let me sort of explain the realization
that I've had.
So let's say that you have a data set.
They could be frames. They could be
states, right? And these come from an
existing environment. Okay?
And then you train your world model.
We'll call it W. And it's basically just
doing this sort of, you know, state goes
to S E,
right? So you have this world model that
you're training.
So the question here and this world
model uh you're taking actions in it and
then what you do is you replace the
environment with this and you do
uh well let me like reward
action URL.
So the question that I had here is
isn't this just going to learn exploits,
right? Isn't this just going to find
everything wrong with your world model
that doesn't actually match the real
environment? exploit this gap
and use this to just like do things that
maximize reward according to this model
but not uh according to this. Oh, also
you also get reward
at
one you also get this
right. So the realization that I had is
yes you are going to train something to
exploit this. Oh, welcome everyone. Anel
something. Rick,
how's it going? Can you explain world
models or share the paper? I'm gonna
share the original paper,
not the the more complicated stuff. It's
just it's called world models.
Um, but the idea is quite simple, right?
You learn a predictive model of the
environment. So, given state and action,
you predict next state and reward.
But the question here that I've always
had with this line of work is how aren't
you just going to learn to exploit gaps
in the model? In fact, there's some
results in this original paper that
shows that you kind of do learn that.
But the key thing that I missed here um
is that you're going to update your
policy.
Okay, you get your policy and then this
policy is actually used to collect fresh
data, right?
So then you actually get to test
you get to test out uh data in the
regions that your model is learn to
exploit and you're literally patching
the holes. So in some sense this
actually is not a perfect like offline
method. You actually do require fresh
data. It's not like a batch learning
method or an offline method. But if you
do have fresh data, then essentially
this is just like an alternative to off
policy that fixes a lot of the problems
that off policy has. Right?
That was the key realization that I had.
Train the world model more than RL. Uh
you can balance however.
But do you see what I do? You see what I
mean here? So it's actually in some case
it is the fresh data the on policy or
not really on policy but the presence of
fresh data that prevents this from
becoming degenerate.
Welcome James.
So this is the key thing that I had and
as a result of this uh and a result of
this combined with these results from
this paper that I completely hate.
Um but also from follow-ups
that also are showing good results with
similar things that I think that this is
actually kind of promising. It's that
combined with me seeing how truly bad
some of the off policy stuff is that
I've been working on.
World model template. What do you mean
template?
There's no template. It's just it's just
an algorithm, right?
So, I can explain the uh the beef I have
with this this paper generally.
Um, so it's a very grounded one and I'm
willing to admit that, you know, if I
can reproduce uh something like this
that the actual results are good. I've
never said that the results are fake in
this paper, right? I've never said that.
The thing is,
so this is our paper published. Um,
we tried all these different tricks. We
poured 20,800 hours uh into these
experiments on the faith that based on
the authors here and all the work that
they presented that these tricks were as
they said like these general purpose
things for improving the stability of
learning. We tried them in another
setting where they should clearly work
if that is the case and they all
completely and utterly failed. So
basically they kind of just grabbed a
clever sounding bag of tricks and like
bolted them onto their method that had a
weak learning algorithm baseline and
then presented them as if they were the
true solution to everything that you
know everybody had overlooked in RL for
the last decade. Um so that is the
problem I have with this paper. it did
an incredible amount of damage to the
field in that sense because I've
literally seen like several people just
using these random tricks assuming that
they work because of the pedigree of
this paper.
But you know what? If this actually does
work and we can get something like this
in puffer, then maybe we'll forgive that
transgression.
No diffusion in here, Anchel.
basic world model stuff and go there.
Yeah. So, I think that the it's likely
that the basic formulation of this is
reasonable. Uh it's just that like it's
literally half the paper devoted to
these tricks and they're all wrong.
So, that is the full context for what I
have here. I will direct people to the
start of this stream if I get questions
about this during as I've shhat on this
paper a whole bunch before.
I do think it was incredibly
irresponsible science.
I'm usually not the guy saying that.
Um but yeah, this here I think that this
is this makes it feasible
expl. So the problem I explained why I
think that they're not because of this,
right? because you get fresh data. World
models need load of data. No, the
opposite. They need not very much data
at all.
Can two policies get merged? Two agents
playing chess as enemies.
The policy at the end.
Uh, you could technically distill them.
Yes,
you could do some form of distillation.
The simplest thing I could think of
would just be to clone um
like clone the winning games from both
of them. So just clone like the winning
side of of moves or whatever from each
game, play them against each other a
bunch and do that
explore otherwise pulls apart. But the
thing is
this fresh data metric because you're
training it to find exploits
essentially. Then when you go uh you're
intentionally sampling the the data.
It's literally learning to explore the
areas that it has holes in in the world
model. I think that's why it works.
And I haven't seen this explained before
either. Maybe it's something I've missed
in some other papers, but I think this
is why it actually can potentially work.
Um
so I am going to just start on the, you
know, the hard task of of actually doing
all the research on this. Um, I'm sure I
lose like most of the viewers for the
day as soon as I do that because, you
know, it's the important work, but it's
not necessarily the interesting work. I
will just mention I really do not like
short form content.
I don't think it's generally a positive
thing, but unfortunately, this is kind
of the direction that the world's been
pushed in. And I'm starting to
experiment a little bit with these just
because literally random clips from the
stream have done better than like some
of the content that's longer form I've
actually put effort into. I'm going to
try to do it in a way that's more
productive and not just dumb clickbait
like actually contains useful
information and shorter form. Hopefully
more like two three minutes instead of
30 seconds. But uh yeah, so that's up
there if you're interested. Okay. Why
world models? because of empirical
results and she'll like
if you just look up like the Atari 100K
um benchmark which I don't think is a
great benchmark but still if you look at
the results of that it's a trend
that and that combined with uh my
confidence has decreased even more than
it already was uh it's gone even lower
than it was before on off policy there
just a ton of problems with off policy
algorithms in general.
This might closer.
All right.
I believe where I left off, I had added
a world model like as just an auxiliary
loss, but I hadn't done much with it.
So,
Right. The goal here
you need to have
you need to have like some sort of state
coder.
I think you just need forward eval.
Yeah. So what you need here?
So this is this encoder thing, right?
Just do this hidden
We're going to have to clean this crap
up, I'm sure.
Okay. So, we do this
and then this gives us
uh this gives us the hidden
This gives us hidden.
Okay.
And then where's our dynamics?
You do generalized advantage estimation
on this.
Probably do, right?
Let me see if we can figure out the uh
the exact formulation of this.
There is code associated with this paper
but it's like very is borderline
unreadable code.
We're going to see whether they actually
work.
I realized something about why they
should make sense.
Like this is wrong.
Half the paper is wrong.
Hey, Finn. Welcome. How the drones
going?
just a little busy. No worries. Did self
imitation get anywhere? Um, it had some
very interesting results, but also some
uh some tough to solve problems.
I will say
it's actually just very very difficult
to get um any sort of sample reuse into
into RL algorithms. It turns out
Okay.
So, they just do a 16st step bootstrap.
Uh, this is
I think I Okay.
Well, we can do this.
Yeah, we can. There's a simple way we
can implement this as a starting point.
We just have to take this thing.
We're going to move this up.
We do about advantages.
No problem using this, right?
preference based learning seems to work
on and off policy.
If you have do you have anything that
actually works like consistently off
policy? I've tried a whole bunch of crap
and like offpaul learning just seems to
not work.
Like basically the problem with offpaul
is that there's not actually a way to
effectively bootstrap.
So it's just like a super weak algorithm
and most of the things that are done to
correct for this just don't work.
Um,
let's call it in general, Tim, where
we're doing.
We're going to try to get like some form
of this working drawing from the pieces
I'm more confident actually work
fast. Can do data set. Does it work on
anything else?
Because basically anything I implement
will solve cartpole. Like I've gotten
self imitation learning to do that. I've
gotten Q-learning to do that. SACE will
do that. Um, I've done this with like
several different methods at this point.
If it works on Breakout faster than um
if it works on Breakout and like fewer
samples or well, I don't know, even
fewer samples. If it works cleanly on uh
Puffer Breakout, let's say,
then I will take notice.
Breakout seems to be like the minimally
complex task that actually carries some
weight to it
as far as I've seen.
Try some more.
Yeah, definitely let me know.
So far, I don't know how you get around
the bootstrap thing, though.
Like it seems like you kind of
fundamentally just can't. You're kind of
just screwed. Good.
Is this doing?
This is still doing RL, right?
I think this is still doing RL, right?
Okay.
Words.
Dynamic should be easy enough.
You just take
The state loss is going to be
difference between these.
Whole bunch of different ways you could
set this thing up.
gives you the state loss.
Then we do
There's a value.
We're going to check after this whether
I'm doing any of this like remotely
correctly.
B term stays the same
for Now,
Uh,
right. So, you need um
how the hell does this work?
Need the initial reward.
What?
It's off by one.
H. It's off by one, isn't it?
Wait, hang on. This should just be
The heck is wrong now?
Vantages.
wrong on the second batch.
Okay. Okay. Is this wrong?
Wait.
Uh, yeah. That's a full batch,
right? That is a full batch.
How is this even remotely
possible that this is the spot where it
breaks?
Yes, you have your weights.
How the heck did that happen? Oh, you
dummy.
No.
Okay, so this actually does run.
No way. This trains right?
Yeah. No.
So we now get to figure out
what is
the actual correct way to implement this
thing.
Wonder if there's a pie torch.
don't understand. Like,
I'd be so much happier if I just never
had to interact with crap Python code.
Literally, you look up the code and you
get this.
should be in here now.
What the
Yeah. So, Ryan, um, the tricks are all
wrong, but I think there is something
to,
uh, there is something to the actual
world model formulation.
Yeah, I know the code sucks.
I'm just trying to figure out like the
RSSM basically that formulation. like
ignore all the other tricks, replace
them with the new stuff that we have.
Okay, but here's the reason that I
here's the thing that I didn't
understand, right? Okay, here's the
thing that I didn't understand. Like,
with world models, aren't you just
literally training the model? You're
literally rlinging an agent to poke
holes in your world model? That's what I
didn't understand. Like, how the hell is
this? How the hell does this even make
sense?
So this is the thing that I'd figured
out. Um,
right, you have like a data set. It
generates frames. There's a gap between
the actual data and the world model
that's doing you're doing RL on the
world model instead of the environment.
It's literally being RL to exploit. But
the thing I did not understand right is
if you're RLing the agent to exploit the
world model, uh, you're also actually
going and grabbing fresh data that is
directly filling in those gaps. So it's
actually kind of self-regularized.
So like I actually
in my mind this actually makes more
sense than like genie type stuff where
you're completely disconnected,
right? But doesn't this make like this
makes sense but stuff like genie then
doesn't make sense at all? Right.
Well, you say exactly. Yeah, but you
didn't make this point to me, now did
you?
So, this is like this is the thing that
I didn't realize because the thing is
this is never complained about that
specifically.
Well, okay, fair. I was kind of too busy
bitching about half the science of that
paper being wrong as we found, right?
Like
I mean, when you literally have half of
your paper being completely bogus, you
tend to like throw the baby out with the
bath water, right?
The other thing that made me take
another look at this was the more recent
like is this more Yeah, more recent
efficient 02. So, it's like now you have
multiple things taking somewhat similar
approaches.
And um
and then I also put that next to some of
the off stuff which just doesn't work as
far as I can tell
policy stuff for sample efficiency.
So the again it's the details are are
annoying. So the thing that I didn't
realize specifically with off policy,
you can't bootstrap like effectively
with off policy at all. And all the like
the methods like retrace, vrace, all
that stuff that claim to let you, they
actually just tell you to not use the
bootstrap data that's off policy. They
don't actually let you use it
effectively.
Um,
so you're basically you just have a
worse method, like a fundamentally worse
method in order to
keep that off policy of the off policy
assumption. And then they just like tune
the heck out of these super brittle
methods,
fake reasons. Well, this is like again
this has taken me now like a full week
of just going through. I've implemented
I've implemented like Q-learning. I
implemented SACE. Uh I implemented like
multiple different versions of imitation
learning based stuff like semion right
and I got like some results across most
of these as well. It's not like I just
failed to implement them. Um
but actually honing in on this stuff
takes time.
RL is on policy. Yeah. So, I'm trying to
find the details on how they do that. Do
you actually know how it works off the
top of it your head? Do they just take
like one step of interaction with the
environment and then roll out 16 steps
or do they like roll out segments and
then like roll the model forward from
each step? Do you know how it actually
works?
real environment data.
They sample those states as initial
states.
Imagine the next
to train the world.
use that to train
policy, course, which obviously we can
replace that crap with um our better on
policy, right?
So, interestingly, if it actually is
strictly on policy,
you might be able to get away with some
other things.
Yeah. And we have better than PO as
well. So,
from a world model,
I don't know about that.
I mean, they kind of just bombed when we
tried them on um like a a stronger
algorithm baseline, right?
Wait, how do you roll out
Oh, I see. So, you do it separately, I
suppose.
Robust. Yeah, we'll just crush that with
giant batch sizes for now.
7. Yeah, I'm kind of just assuming that
we crush that for now. Well, I'm trying
to figure out like a decent way to
retrofit this initially, right? Like I'm
right now I'm just taking
I'm trying to take like the first
segment or the first step.
So first time step of mini batch. I roll
it out for BPT Horizon
and I collect like the imagined
data.
I use that for or on policy learning
and then for the dynamics loss.
Uh, right. I do.
Do Do you train though?
I guess the thing I don't understand
here is the state loss trained via like
one time step error
or is it trained via like the difference
between the entire roll out of like 16
steps or whatever you're going to do
versus if you were to compute that
function on the uh the ground truth
data.
Is it like state and reward are like T+1
with the real actions or no?
And all
Yeah. Okay. You see like there are a lot
of details here that kind of matter.
Figure it out. I even know if they have
it in here.
They're better open source.
Uh you're probably right.
That was bad.
get the details.
I'm trying to figure out how they do the
roll outs. Really,
you can write half decent like training
code.
Ludicrous
actual baselines.
Yeah. I'm just trying to figure out like
the details of how I should implement
this thing.
Yeah.
do I do like from Dreamer v1 on.
Yeah, no kidding.
This does at least have an algorithm
block. Let me just spend one minute on
this.
Okay, this looks like this looks like
the um
the dynamics learning is
how can it even be a one step,
right?
Cuz
you have an LSTM state, don't you? Yeah,
you have a LSTM state.
So it has to be then the full trajectory
dynamics planning.
Well, the original world model paper was
just called world models. False.
Let me see if I'm just doing somethingly
stupid here. I probably am. I've way
over complicated it, right?
Oh, yeah. here.
I don't even have to click that link,
Ryan. Damn it.
I have to send you back to the sea mines
of making uh net hack fast over that
one.
not the minds.
Get you writing C for your post dock one
of these days.
What are we working on today? We're
working on world model
world model based approaches.
A few different things here.
Scan that bot real quick.
Really slow at writing.
That up now,
dude. Finish that thing. Like, how? I
literally I think I spent less than a
week writing my thesis.
Is that what you're still doing?
Or is it a different paper or what?
Uh research proposal.
They make you submit that crap.
Can't you just like type solve net hack
and just like submit it? be done. Oh,
fellowship.
Yeah, that crap.
I see.
That's obnoxious. But the thing is like
those are so bloody noisy anyways. Can't
you just like stick it into GPT, call it
a day, and get back to research?
Like I think I I'm way better at GPT
than write like at writing a good
research proposal, but GPT is probably
way better at like writing some bog
standard [__] that gets fellowships
accepted.
gets gramps or whatever.
Let me
questionable
get it right. Yeah.
Well, it's especially a good environment
if you can just make it fast already,
for which we have to send you to the sea
mines.
Yeah.
All right. So,
encode embed.
Yeah, this is totally different, right?
This is fine.
You have your embeddings.
Good train.
Oh yeah, this is going to be totally
wrong, right?
Hey, boxing.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is totally wrong
cuz the actions diverge. Done with off
Paul. Um, this is an alternative to the
same thing.
and problem in a sense.
Okay, I think actually if I just read
these
See? Yeah.
Um,
wait. But how?
Okay. I'm not understanding how they're
constructing the supervised losses here.
I think I'm just not reading correctly.
Coder maps stocastic or sensory inputs
to stocastic representations X to Z. The
sequence model
predicts the sequence of these
representations
given past actions
a t minus one. So wait, do you actually
use the actions
from uh the real data?
Oh, do you not predict? Hang on.
I don't think you predict next action.
Wait, wait.
Okay, this is very different from what I
thought.
Given a sequence batch of inputs,
actions, rewards, and continuation
flags,
the world model parameters fee
are
optimized end to end to minimize
prediction loss.
Wait, the world model and actor
starting from the representations of
replayed inputs.
Imagined model states
actions reports. No, it is imagining
act.
Hang on here.
So the prediction
so X given Z.
Oh wait. So xt
given z
and h what is h
is model
hidden t minus one
is this
this is like your lstm
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So this is
how good are you predicting the next
next state
the real reward.
Okay
there's also this continue thing and
then the dynamics
are Z
given H
and XT
the real input.
Okay.
I think then I have this
I'm doing this wrong All right.
I'd like to be sure though.
Is there any key way I can figure this
out?
this freaking Jack's Good.
Never mind.
Um, yeah. So, it's it's the problem is
the waters are very muddied around it
because half the paper is just like
clearly wrong.
Um,
I'm looking to see I think that there's
a salvageable core.
I'm trying to figure out how it actually
works though
like the details of how um
doing these imagined rollouts
are I guess the question is do they
actually train
reward model
is QI.
Wait, no. This is dreamer one, right?
Yeah, this is dreamer one.
Maybe it's still useful.
Let's see this is saying imagine
trajectories
predict rewards
and values
value estim
Okay. So this is the dynamics are
learned with the real data.
The behaviors are done fully
fully imagined.
Okay. Think that makes sense.
Think that makes
doing this wrong.
Yes, I am.
Because what we need to do
right? The state needs to come after the
LSTM,
right?
Yes. Okay. Several several things wrong.
I think I understand this now, but I
have to be like far more disciplined
about doing this reasonably correctly.
Um,
yeah, I think all I need to do
I split endode and decode.
Split out encode and decode.
be good.
I think this is fine.
Yeah. Yeah. You don't need this
at all.
Get encode eval.
You also don't need this, right?
the train.
You get your reward loss.
Now this whole thing can be done like
dramatically
dramatically more efficiently. Right?
Okay, this does give us Yes, this gives
us the hidden outputs
for each
for each state. This is good. world
models treating you. Um, confusing, but
we will be making progress. The goal is
to get something that at least trains
um beyond like uh trivial policy today.
That's my goal.
Okay. So, this is going to produce our
encodings.
And then we need
we need the dynamics on this right
which is hidden.
All
dynamics is meant to predict next state
given
this work.
It does right your
position model.
Am I just getting this wrong? Like am I
not using
Oh, hang on. The LSTM is supposed to
predict
Do we just do like hidden next or
whatever?
Policy.g G
hidden and
the real actions.
and
I think this works.
I can also
do is we do state loss
going to be hidden.
You're going to take
everything from here.
do
this.
Okay. And now the reward loss.
This is our next.
And you're going to do the exact same
thing,
which is
MB towards
run.
Oh, because we have to do the rest of
this.
Going to get closer here, though. Get
closer.
Let me see if this makes sense.
We have our hidden state.
This should just be encode eval, right?
Okay. So, this gives you your hidden
your hidden state.
Um,
now you get your
log jets.
Okay.
And this comes from G.
You get action reward. I think this is
fine.
So at least runs.
Didn't learn anything, but it runs.
But now we have to figure out
we have to figure out some details,
right?
You have your trajectory segments.
Compute model states S.
Yeah. So this is this is computing your
hidden states.
Update theta using
reinforcement learning.
Now something is different here.
Data
using representation.
How do we say?
Yeah, I'm definitely I'm just missing
details.
Look at the different nets that he has.
So, he has
H
takes
HT minus one. So that's the state.
Take Z
is quite different.
Wait, we have an encoder
takes observation
and hidden
I think that's confusing is I think an
LSTM can be both of these, right?
Cuz wait, LSTM is going to take in
previous hidden.
Yeah. Yeah. So the LSTM is going to
produce
a hidden state and a cell state, right?
Okay.
The different that predicts
given the hidden
predict dynamics.
Is this such a freaking mess?
A h
x.
Okay.
They just have this written really
weirdly.
Yeah, because the thing that's I think
is throwing me off is
these all take in hidden Okay.
Wait, is this does this even make sense?
So, this takes in
Wait, this doesn't make any bloody
sense, does it?
So HT comes from
HC
and A
same inputs
not the same network. Yeah, it's
confusing as hell. That's what I'm
trying to figure out.
Um
so the thing is this is an LSTM and then
they're saying okay so the LSTM takes
the previous LSTM state and the encoding
of the observations but then the
observation encoder also takes
the uh the previous state in
which doesn't make you like that does
that even make sense?
You get your hidden state,
your dynamics.
encoder takes current state and current
h. Well, how does this make any sense?
Right?
Because
this takes the encoding
face previous
that even work? Is this not like
circular or something?
Previous state
ZT
I don't see how this takes hidden
hidden take ZT minus one
like H0 is like this gets initialized
this to zero or whatever
you encode
and then H1
comes
encoding
this
twice to figure three.
[Music]
H uses Z.
Wait, if this is the case, then is this
even can you even implement this as like
a batch sequence model?
Even make sense?
I don't think you can even implement
this as a batch sequence model, right?
the data buffer. It's not that's not the
problem. That's for later.
Yeah, there's literally no way to
implement this as a um as a batch
sequence model the way that this thing
is written. That's the thing that's
driving me nuts, I think.
even use an LSTM. What is
So if I consider
I merge these two. Hang on.
These two bloody things different.
generated bot. Not the problem. They've
done something they've done something
super weird here that screws up the
normal way that you use sequence models.
Well, let's do
It's nan instantly. Yeah.
RSSM
they uses their
Hang on. What do they even use for this?
Is the RSSM does it use
Oh, is this from
Okay. So, it's from the first paper, I
guess.
RNN with auxiliary predictors. So, it is
an RNN,
but they've done something stupidly
screwy with the RNN, right?
All
right. Well, let me see if I can figure
it out.
And actually,
uh, Satcha, question for you then. Do
you know
Is this is this the RNN and then these
are separate networks or are these to
the RNN?
Yeah.
Is this supposed to be the RNN right
here?
because it's weird to me that they are
including the encoder is not just a
function of the observation. It's a
function of the observation and the
hidden. Okay, so this is the RNN.
Um,
I I don't understand how this takes the
previous time steps.
Is it broken?
which guys is an encoder.
Yeah, but it's a weird encoder because
it takes the state, right?
Like I would expect this to be Z is a is
Q of X and then HT is FI of
um HT minus one and uh ZT
and then optionally A T minus on.
Also, where the heck is the action
predictor in this?
They're missing the They don't even have
the action predictor in here.
doesn't have the action. What do you
mean doesn't have an action predictor?
It has to, right? It imagines full
trajectories.
policy. Okay. So, they just don't have
it written there. They have it separate
for some reason, even though it's part
of the I mean, the world model doesn't
work without it, right?
So,
The sequence model takes
mess with
easier to imagine it like that. I I
don't think it makes any bloody sense
either way you look at it.
Um,
but with the way that this is
put this cell here
and then this is
This is going to be F.
Take
the
A and I guess
trying to figure out how he
position dynamic
here.
The main feature of the paper is putting
out very good results while being half
wrong.
Trying to figure out
the code doesn't help at all.
Let's say I just like fully
fully try to do this.
I'm going to have to like try to match
almost completely
did that
very hard thing to implement. Yeah. And
like the the thing that bothers me with
this paper, right, is it's very tricky
to implement because it's poorly written
and the reference code sucks. And then I
have like I have 20,000 uh hours of
experiment showing that the entire like
half of the paper at least is completely
wrong.
But this is where we're like this is
where we are left because there's
literally nothing else promising that I
found.
Like there's basically nothing else
promising left. Like off Paul's
completely screwed. Good.
I mean, what's your alternative here,
right?
I've systematically kind of gone through
most of the other things and there's
like nothing else promising.
like we're kind of left with a set of
hideously complex methods that have
posted very good results with
aggressively bad science.
That's like that's all that's left.
And I can only hope that as soon as I
get something that like vaguely
resembles the original method into a
reasonably correct form that the scale
speed and general stability of all the
other stuff I've done in Puffer will uh
will work.
I was like, "What else do you do
fusion based?"
Well, that's even more complicated.
Also, what what has done that? Do you
have a do you have like a paper name or
something?
Or
let me check that.
What
is this? The result.
Oh, wait. This is pixelbased is only,
isn't it?
Diffusion would be limited to pixels,
right?
Yeah, that's like an immediate no.
Yeah, see that's an immediate no.
Limiting to pixels just screws the field
instantly.
Really, really bad thing to bake in.
It also works for robotics.
People say it's stable TD
model predictive control
doing TD on top of classic methods.
And I don't I honestly don't trust
robotics results as far as I can throw
them. Like of everything. I trust
robotics results the least.
They literally have the worst code, the
least like carefully controlled
benchmarks of anything.
How are all the sodas bad on breakout?
It's 100k frames.
Well, I but like I can't use MPC for
other stuff, right?
Uh hang on.
Not robotic specific.
Yeah, that's uh these are not
competitive benchmarks.
I'm not like I'm not going to trust that
out of like
with how fiddly like it could be like
this could be good but it's like with
how fiddly RL is it's like not even
worth looking at without like
independent voucher or something
hurt my feelings. I mean, literally just
open any robotics codebase, right? Like,
you have engines stacked so many levels
deep. Like, I I find crazy things all
the time in them. Um,
and like also like the the tasks aren't
usually controlled all that well. There
are a ton of different freaking tasks.
I mean, I hate Atari 100K as a b as a
benchmark, but at least for this stuff,
I trust that over the robotics results
even.
Classic control method works with
everything. Then it's just streamer
alpha zero.
Classic control works with everything.
Oh, okay. Yeah. I mean like searchbased
stuff like efficient zero is quite
similar, right?
That's like between those two
mu zero followup stuff.
The problem is, and I looked at that and
it is better, but it's just obscenely
even like harder to implement cuz it's
all of this crap plus um
uh plus tree search.
And the search stuff is just like
incredibly obnoxious to implement. No,
search is harder because like to make
the search fast, you're kind of just
screwed.
Made by guys graduated. Yes, exactly. I
noticed that. It's like generational
trauma in a codebase.
like insane.
the number of networks.
Just now I have it one to one though,
right?
Let's see what this does.
before
the sequence model.
What does title mean?
We're trying uh world model stuff even
though it's bitten me a whole bunch in
the
doesn't We need a concat
just takes dynamics only takes hidden
then you don't need this. You just do
all it. Right.
Well, actually, we'll make this ankle
give Jack another chance. Is you know
what? I'll tell you what. I'll do that
as soon as somebody sends me a code base
in Jax. That's not total dog [__]
Transformerbased completely different
application.
It's a completely different application.
and then a reward. hard.
A separate branch for dreamer would be
nice. Look, yes, it will be. I mean, I
will sync this to a branch.
What made you change your mind on world
models? The fact that I ran out of other
things because offpaul was even worse.
I'm like 75% sure at this point that
that whole branch of research is just
doomed.
Like I was trying to figure out like
okay what was like what can we learn
from off Paul research over the last
hour and it's just nothing. You can't
learn anything. The algorithms suck
to zero refactor for open spiel.
Yeah that will be rough.
Dreamer doesn't need to do explicit
search though, Satcha,
which is why I'm starting with this. I
actually like search as a like search
makes a ton of sense. Um, it's like kind
of obvious in some ways, but it's a
total pain to implement fast. So, we're
starting with this
What could I do with this? Oh, it's a
keyword.
Your terminal instead.
Okay, get rid of all this crap.
And actor and value uh do not need
other stuff, right?
Why the heck does this even need?
It's so weird to me that this takes the
obs and the hidden, right?
Like, why
back to no good of way of learning? Um,
so because you can't actually
effectively bootstrap off policy,
like all the different correction
mechanisms for bootstrapping off policy
data just amount to like yeah, throw the
data away
problem. No, I think it's a
bootstrapping problem.
has not been done. I don't know if it
makes any sense in the way that it's
formulated.
Why should the obs parts be necessary?
I'm confused. Like this is not how any
other recurrent model works ever.
So encode what is this saying? You take
This literally does not make any bloody
sense to me why they have
why they have the
I'm like it just doesn't make any bloody
sense to me that they have well I
actually I suppose here so this is okay
I do have this slightly wrong because
it's the encoder takes
This is obs and hidden. But we can do
hidden obs. And then this is like hidden
encoding.
decoding. Wait, they got worse results
without decoding.
That's a major problem if that's the
case because
um decoding is not going to work.
I can guarantee encode like decoding is
just not going to work on non-pixel.
Is there an ablation for decode?
Cuz if so, I missed that.
figure five.
Is this the original?
Wait, that's a super
Isn't this a super old one?
This is Dreamer V2, right?
They literally have this copy pasteed.
So
yeah, I don't know which of these Is
there a specific
figure five you said?
Is it image gradients?
Wait, is this image gradients? Is this
what this is?
We just bet. I mean, we'd better hope
that's not what this is because
I mean that's just a mess.
But that you still
you would still learn through latence,
right?
like doing this versus a pixel loss.
Now, that doesn't make sense to me. Like
the search models don't have image
reconstructions and they have a similar
method that works.
FIG 6 in 2024 has no reconstruction
grads. 2024 fig 6 in 2024
rate delay.
Uh yeah, that's just X being X.
What does no reconstruction gradients
mean in?
Wait.
Yeah, the unre unsupervised
reconstruction. But you can do this
without doing going back to pixels. No,
you do recon like it's um
Oh, is this like on top of the state
loss
on fire just to make the images? Well,
it like the difference is that like the
method is useless if it only works on
pixels.
But where is this loss even?
Wait, where's the
Oh, wait. This is just not training any
model. If you take this out, right?
I think that's just taking any like
anything out.
like you still do the loss over like Z
to uh what is it? Z P to ZT minus one.
I like I just do not believe that you
just the thing just stops working
without
without a pixel loss versus um a state
loss.
Equation two. Equation two is just sum
of all the losses.
Okay. So,
um,
model can't learn purely from latence
does very poorly.
Well,
if that's the case, then this is all
just screwed, Satcha. And then the only
thing you can do is the searchbased
stuff,
which I don't know how that gets around
it.
Tim say something.
It's a lot of work.
Did I like miss a closing?
Huh?
What?
Oh, now we're at value. Okay.
Just some syntax thing I'm not seeing.
It's fine.
really
streamer is not is used in industry. I
mean, what do you mean used in industry?
Industry has no idea what they're doing
at the moment in RL at all. Like,
they're literally I the idea that like
there is like actual like RL being done
reasonably and correctly at a bunch of
places is simply not true. Like none of
this stuff is widely known. The quality
of the literature is generally too low.
Okay, llm RL does not [__] count.
It is a trivial instance of an RL
problem on a much larger scale that like
makes the problem that would be very
easy very hard as a result of the models
being super slow. You have completely
different algorithmic challenges.
Let me know when you're doing like
thousand thousand turn I guess they call
it RL.
A thousand step is not a thousand
tokens. It's a thousand interactions.
If this worked, you would have coding
agents that did not suck by now.
Transformer world models. Not in RL
though.
At least not publicly.
So, how the heck do we
probably should still have a forward
function, right?
And then just figure out how to put it
together.
So
you do
dt minus one.
You need to literally put a third
variable in here, don't you?
all these releases. Stuff like Genie is
completely incomparable.
It's like a completely different set of
issues.
It's like not like it's so distant. It's
not even the stuff there is not even
remotely helpful to this
stuff.
search stuff does actually
the search stuff seems like it can work.
Yes. It's like hideously hideously
complicated though to do Well,
We'll do RSS then like this.
Imaginate. Oops. I'm working on that.
Hang on.
We're sure as hell not going to copy the
original code because the original
code's an unreadable mess.
There's no planning step though.
Like this method doesn't do planning.
You could, but it doesn't.
Okay. So, this takes O device and state,
right?
So in this case
you do like Yes.
The LSTM not taking in the current.
Should I just like mess with this? Like
literally this architecture doesn't make
any bloody sense as it's written to me.
acting in imaginary MDP equals planning.
Not when you're just rolling out one
episode, like rolling out a fixed number
of steps with no options over it.
You're literally doing that for like
you're doing that for training only.
It's not even done in the uh in the
forward pass. The forward pass just
executes one step.
Can somebody explain? Is there anything
that actually makes sense about this at
all? Or is this just insane? Cuz like
you're not even taking you're not
feeding the observation into the
recurrent model. You're feeding the
previous observation in
I guess I'll keep it this way for
consistency for now. We're going to have
to ablate this cuz in my mind this
architecture is completely insane.
Okay, cuz you literally the Ford.
So now you just do H
is it hidden equals
cell
uh Z
HC like this, right?
And then you do
D equals
dynamics.
It takes
hidden.
No, it just takes hidden.
Okay. And then you have to put
the action, right?
Logits.
meristics.
Well, the thing is I know for a fact
that uh all like the tricks are just
wrong.
It's not I'm not quite trying to
replicate it. It's just I'm trying to
get the world model portion from Dreamer
without all the crazy tricks.
I just want to get something that's like
directionally correct today and starts
learning on relatively easy problems.
Like the thing that I haven't been able
to get right is a clean version of
increase compute decrease samples does
not work
self actor
and you return logits and value. So this
we can do right. So this is our forward
Didn't check my calendar today.
because of those hot fixes and
ablations.
Uh those hot fixes and ablations are
crap. We've tested them extensively.
They don't do anything. It's the reason
that those do anything is that they used
they used reinforce as a baseline. So
they used literally the worst possible
RL algorithm and then they bolted a
bunch of stuff on to patch it for that.
We're not going to do reinforce. We're
going to do like an actually say an
algorithm.
That's the problem with it.
Gives you logits and value.
I don't even necessarily care about the
details of Dreamer specifically. It's
either the world model formulation works
or it doesn't.
If I can't get a version of it, if I get
like a version of it that's reasonably
sane and it doesn't work in Puffer Lib,
it's just not going to work anywhere and
it's just another of these like horribly
brittle things.
Oh,
hang on.
heck is wrong with this?
Oh, cuz the actor doesn't need
Well, you would want the actor then to
use
want the actor to use both, right?
What would be torch at a observation
like this.
How quickly it's running puffer end.
What's a good speed for breakout?
Depends on your specs.
I think like 3 point something mil.
Actor uses latent. Actor doesn't use
actor doesn't use obs. Uh yes, you're
right. So it's defined on
just the state.
Wait, date. But what is state?
Wait, what? They don't even Where's SD?
Where is S even defined?
No, H and Z. It does. You see this? They
concatenate these. So it uses both.
460Ti. You'd have to bench like look
that up versus uh a different card, but
I the easiest thing is to just run it
and see what you get. Like run it with
defaults.
Okay, cool. We actually get to the train
function now. I'm going to use the
restroom real quick. I'll be back in a
minute and then we will uh we'll see if
we can get the train loop to run
correctly or not.
You know,
I actually really like what um
what Ryan told me that um
you know, the cool thing with the world
model stuff is that it's on policy RL
with respect to the world model. And on
policy RL is the only thing we know
actually works.
about 1 million 1.5 mil half the speed
of a 5090
is not bad.
You have your own like over a million
step per second RL now. So you can
probably do things with that. Welcome to
Puffer.
Okay, so now we need to figure out how
we compute
this whole bloody thing, right?
This is the forward function
using these
generate synthetic rollouts. Yeah.
Yes,
we're going to kind of try to brute
force it with re like ridiculously big
batch sizes to start though.
Like the goal is not to initially like
make it work on 100k samples, right?
Like I'm fine running it on 100 million
samples and seeing if it can learn
anything
and then we'll go from there.
So you go through board action
log prob
and value right
go through these.
You need state.
You do just
you just do like this, right? So you do
like
then
We can just do
OBS
eight.
That's right.
Yes. Satcha. Thanks for dropping by.
De Grumpily just trying to fix this mess
of a field we have.
It is such a mess,
readable.
All right. Thank you. I will keep this
as a reference,
a link.
Just port this into
Yeah.
All right. Pulling me here.
Now we do.
We're going to not have pre-allocated uh
tensors to start.
So you start with this
this thing, right? Like before,
right?
And then you go through
and
you do
you do like
Oh yeah, we actually need to sample log.
It's unbatched. That's so gross.
So you get your dynamics
then
Oh, that's disgusting. You can't even do
this without the decode, right?
Yeah, you literally can't do this port
part without the decode
because you don't have access to the
next observations, right?
So, I actually do then have to
reformulate this without um without that
component because otherwise it's screwy.
Well, that sucks because that actually
means I could have kept the um the
batched version of this and it would
have been faster.
But I guess we'll start.
Let me just think about this.
Make sure I'm not totally
misunderstanding this.
Sequence model.
Code
MX
Wait,
what the hell is the difference between
the dynamics predictor and the encoder?
Uh, I actually don't understand this.
What is the difference between the
dynamics and the encoder?
Uh, Z hat does not appear in here at
all.
I mean, I think I can do this, right?
Like if I if I just switch it I can
switch it around a little bit.
Wait, what is the one that predicts?
I don't know. I don't understand this
actually. How do you predict next Z?
Just we freaking
Well, it's because you taking the
action, right?
Yeah, it's because you taking the uh the
action
such a screwy model.
into discrete representation ZT.
How is this discrete representation?
I missed this
code sensor representation
predicted by a sequence model.
Where's this discrete representation
shenanigans?
I totally missed this.
Is this new? And um
Oh, hang on. They have this diagram.
Does anybody have a simple version of
this in PyTorch?
Bloody RSSM doesn't make any sense to
me.
I can dump an encoding on this and make
it technically work.
Okay.
current model
embedded state action
return some
welcome a private
thank you I'm currently bashing my head
against a very screwy model.
Create normal disc.
Okay, so this is a samplebased thing.
Weird.
Most companies are not producing good RL
work working
over differences.
Yeah. I mean the thing is that the
quality of the literature and the
quality of the vast majority of the
implementations in this space are so low
that you just don't know what you're
doing in this space most of the time.
What I'm trying to fix, right?
And I have actually fixed in one major
area which is anywhere where you have
either fast sims or you can make a fast
sim and we make it easier to do that.
High data regime we have like very good
uh simple RL now
it actually works.
Uh we don't have good stuff for low data
regime which is what I'm trying to
figure out now.
Oh,
really?
Is this how this is supposed to be?
The sample base. I didn't realize this
at all.
Okay.
Why the heck does it have to be? Um,
I guess it has to be a sampling based
thing.
Tricky.
Where are Okay.
Oh, wait. There. This is different.
sensory inputs to stochastic
representations.
Sequence model
picks the sequence of these
representations.
I think that this is all coming down to
screwy time step indexing, right?
I host a telegram channel with articles
like this so I can revisit and learn
everything better. A couple hundred
papers related to this subject matter.
There are not a couple hundred papers
worth reading.
Notice you've enabled automatic caption
after the stream ends.
Allowed me to download captions.
I was the guy. This allowed me to
download the captions. Can you check?
Uh, sure. I think YouTube is probably
going to prevent me from or prevent you
from posting it there. You can post it
in the Discord though,
check or search the video.
Yeah, if there's like a reasonably
straightforward way of doing that, then
sure.
I'll check the link if you drop it in
the uh the Discord.
concatenation of these.
This isn't a concatenation, right?
Yeah, YouTube does that by default.
I don't know if there's a way. I have
not found a way to turn it off. rather
takes previous state,
takes encoding,
produces
next state, right?
And then
hit the encoding.
Oh, no. This does work.
Yeah, this this does actually I think
work.
Uh, the only thing that's bizaro is
does the encoder need
the previous
HT
it right? It's like
thing
very difficult.
L,
right? Because you don't concat the
observations, right? You conquer
is
few times hidden like Huh?
This one's hidden.
That was a simple mistake.
Very simple.
You do the dynamics
You get your logits.
You get your value
is actions
log.
And you need the action still, right?
This was
action.
How long before genie level world models
are used for RL? I fundamentally don't
think that idea makes sense
like at all.
Like in that case, you're explicitly
just training RL agents to exploit your
bad SIM.
So something like this sort of I think.
Now we also need to make the the
sequence model
take into account action right?
Why does this sequence model have the
freaking action?
Get something to run first and have to
play with this because it's just like
the math is written in a way that like
this is it just does not make sense.
They cheat any way they can. Even
I mean look, RL literally finds exploits
in physics engines, like actual game
engines. You think it's not going to
find expert uh exploits in this
completely hallucinated model? Of course
it is
model for RL. I only know of the concept
from Jeepa. Um there's been the thing is
there have been a lot of good empirical
results using them but uh there also
have been a ton of problems with the
science behind it. So I actually Ryan
was in here before. I like the thing
that he said which is um that you get to
do online RL. You get to do like on
policy RL which is the only thing we
know actually works on the world model.
you basically get to do unlimited online
RL and then you get to actually ground
that RL because whenever you drift off
of the uh off the learned model you go
get fresh data that then grounds it
again. So it's like an alternative to
doing off policy learning in some sense
with about the same amount of problems
with the science off policy but better
empirical results.
Can I just come up with a formulation of
this that actually makes sense?
a separate dynamic
cuz I suppose
Oh yeah, these are all samples. I see.
Yeah, these are all sample based models.
That's why
why not would be a fun stream. Why not?
What?
I think I missed something.
Continually
wrote, memorize the differences between
these various modeling types,
creation, progression,
Python and R studio.
I mean, my guide is uh my own suggestion
on how to learn this stuff is on my
guide on X,
come up with a better algorithm.
Well, that's what I'm working on, right?
In some sense,
the cool thing with Puffer is Puffer is
so fast, right? Like, we can actually
very rigorously test stuff. Um,
it's just tricky when the actual
algorithms are so fiddly and so
complicate. Like they're so complex in
their presentation.
I think we have to give this thing
action right here.
Well, they look clear, but they're
really not.
Like, you actually go to implement the
thing and you're like, "Ah, this makes
no sense.
It has no attribute dim." Ah, right.
Can you not pass none to LSTM? Oh, yeah.
No, you can't pass none to LSTM cell,
right?
Fine.
I suppose the thing that's just like
hardest for me to convey to people
um
the thing that's just like really
difficult to get across and you can hear
me say the words but you really can't
appreciate until you've worked in this
space for a while is
the extent to which science is not a
clean
uh a clean process. process where you're
just stacking up more and more progress
from paper to paper. It's a very messy
process in which like much if not the
majority of published work is just
wrong. Uh there are things that are
embedded that are correct. But actually
figuring out what is robust and general
uh and actually just works consistently
requires piecing together patchwork
ideas from a ton of different papers and
like constantly updating your own
estimates of like what is likely to
work, what isn't, and then combining
that with engineering at a level that is
much higher than what is done on average
by researchers in the field.
So like just the extent to which the
field is messy and like it's not
actually straightforward to just take a
thing implement it and oh yay it works
now like that's just difficult to convey
and we replace LSTM with transformer is
performance better uh there lacks
evidence on that I would say like
there's can't evidence at small scale
they're definitely slower though
it could in an hour yeah exactly it's
like a totally different. I mean, this
is the one thing I've actually been able
to accomplish quite well with Puffer,
right? is like given fast sim. Well, we
make fast sims rather not just given
fast sim. uh we can actually have RL
work pretty dang well and you can test
ideas very quickly and without a massive
amount of code
you. I honestly I talk about a lot of
this stuff in my guides as well. Like
the most important thing to understand
if you want to understand science is to
understand a little bit about the
process of how science is actually done.
And when you understand that, it
actually becomes pretty obvious why it's
not actually like this pure thing where
you're just like stacking up progress
and like always pushing things forward.
Like you realize why it's this amorphous
thing where things constantly don't
replicate and like ideas that sound good
and seem to have evidence are
overturned. Like when you understand the
actual process of the PhD students and
researchers who are overworked, who
cannot run proper ablations, who are
like trying to get papers published so
that they can graduate or so that they
can wrap up a project or whatever, like
it becomes a lot more clear.
Honestly, one of the um the coolest
things when I was at RLC was just
showing a couple of my colleagues who
are newer to the field,
just like taking them down from paper to
paper and seeing, do you see why that
one's wrong? Yep. Do you see why that
one's wrong? And it's like you kind of
just see the same problems over and over
and over and over. And of course you do
do because the problems are born from
the constraints placed on the
researchers.
Like research is done by people under
severe constraints. Those constraints
produce consistent patterns by which
things are done incorrectly.
Ah, I see.
Ew.
Okay. So now
you actually get this imagined output.
What do we do with this?
We need the dynamics, right?
Any reason why you reinit weights?
Honestly,
it used to be a thing. I probably could
redo ablations and see if it's still
required with the new optimizer and such
that we have
because I think it should be less
sensitive.
But it used to matter in the past. I
don't know if it matters anymore.
I mean, it's like it's very difficult
with the amount of stuff I have to do in
puffer lid. It's very different to
difficult to balance my time across
these things, right? Like I could be
running extensive ablations on like what
actually matters and what doesn't. I
could be working on like simplifying
docs and code. I can be working on like
producing material in this space to get
people into it. I have to be working at
some at least at some amount on current
clients and business expansions. I have
to work on research side stuff as well
like you see here. It's um
you know it's just there's a lot of
stuff and it's it would be nice if I
knew like ah yeah we don't need these
few lines but the amount of experiments
it would take take means it's not super
high on the priority list. It's more
like a for once we have at least
everything in a decent spot
quickly make changes
find out in 30 minutes 36 hours. Yes.
So, I mean, this is this is actually one
of the ideas I have for Puffer Lib is
just I think RL if we just make this
stuff a lot more sane and consistent. RL
could become like the main entry point
in AI for newcomers to this space
because we've taken this like really
cool thing that used to be really really
complicated and at least right now for a
decent set of problems we've made it
relatively simple.
If we can continue to push that, you
know, that'll just be more and more
people into the space, and that helps
guarantee progress.
And even something like this, I can
guarantee you that if I get this to
work, uh, if I get this to work cleanly,
I can make the code clean. I'm very good
at that. I can. So, I guarantee you if
we get this to work uh in a way that
like I'm happy with, I can make the code
make any progress. I don't know.
I've made a lot of changes.
Can I figure out a clean way to get the
It's lost. At least
we should be able to have that work,
right?
This returns logit and values, right?
You probably want to do the dynamics
losses first,
not second.
You want to do like this.
All
right. And then what we'll do is
we actually don't even need
this necessarily, right?
Yeah, Andrew, it's just it's very very
complicated the way that these things
are done.
You know, I thought that this was going
to be the easier formulation.
I should have probably just done like
the simplest like original world model
stuff I could come up with without this
crazy RSSM like shenanigans and all this
weird notation.
Maybe I should still do that. I don't
know.
Five senses essentially. Well, there
aren't five senses designed for games,
nor do we even have sensors for
everything with that.
You can do audio visual.
Tactiles hard but doable.
The problem with tactiles, you can't
really simulate it super well
and stuff.
All right. So we do
predict rewards for us.
creator with scaffolding placement set
objects
types.
Yeah, it's tough because like basically
any like end engine thing that you come
up with is just like doesn't cover all
the cases you want and things are so
fiddly in RL that it's almost always
better at least for now to just special
case everything.
Where do you see the field headed over
the next five years?
Um, it depends what I'm able to pull off
with this honestly.
Like outside of what I'm doing here,
like there really isn't anything else
that I see out there that like takes RL
from these big janky huge projects to
actually working out in the open, not
behind closed doors on things you can
train at home and valuable like usable
directly on a variety of different
problems at companies uh without having
like gigantic gigantic things
really I it's depends on what I'm able
to pull off.
It's why I'm doing it, right? Cuz I
think like the like the amount of impact
you can have as an individual at this
point is massive.
Where would you like it to head? Um I
would like RL to be as mature as
language models are now. I would like to
see this like sane, simple, broadly used
throughout robotics, logistics, games,
and then my personal favorites are like
scientific simulation based research.
I'd like to see this kind of thread its
way through uh pretty much everywhere
where you have interaction problems,
everywhere where you have sims, and to
just change the way that you look at
what you can do with simulation in
general.
I actually don't think run robotics is
even like I don't even think robotics is
the most useful application or most
interesting application of this stuff at
all.
Well, I don't know. If you make like a
really really cracked out uh
manufacturing bots, not humanoids, like
really cracked out like multi-tool arms
that build stuff super quickly, then
maybe.
But from what I've seen in robotics
right now, it's not going the right
direction for that stuff. It's kind of
going to like a big hype cycle on slow
dumb like supposedly general thing.
Is it not a common sense idea that RL is
the way forward? Yeah, it should be, but
it's not because LLMs are super hyped
right now and most of the interest
outside of Puffer around RL is purely
around LLMs in a really really dumb
restricted sense of what RL can actually
do.
What about programming?
A lot of people yapping that AI can code
flawlessly.
Um well I mean those people simply can't
code
because like it's not remotely close to
doing anything. If you actually solve
programming you solve basically
everything but like it's not remotely
usable at the moment for any of this.
Like a lot of the well-known researchers
that are saying that it's really good
for code. It's just like have you seen
researchers write code? They write awful
code.
physics informed models would be
beneficial if you're thinking about
physics informed models. Um, if you mean
like building better physics sims, yes,
that's one thing that we can look at.
That's like a really big problem though
for one area.
I like that's something that we'd have
to do as like a somewhat larger project
if we wanted to take that on. And it's
kind of separate from fixing RL in a
sense. Well, not always. We make like a
couple dedicated sims for control tasks
at the moment. General physics engine a
lot harder to do really well.
Any kind of paranormal system is big.
Well, I mean, if you look at the um if
you look at the traction we've got from
basically me plus open source
contributors hacking on stuff in the
last year, it's working incredibly well.
Like the trend is there. It's just a
matter of like delivering a next the
next few algorithm updates to Puffer and
then continuing to iterate on speed and
efficiency and everything.
Give it a structure. Implement it in the
best way.
But like giving something structure is
not harder than actually implementing it
is the thing.
Psychiatrist X reinforcement learning.
Uh yeah, people are trying that and it's
a terrible idea. Don't do that.
I'm probably a bad person to ask because
uh my view of therapy in general is
running and deadlifts.
So, I'm probably a bad person to ask for
that.
So, this does give us
We just do deltas on this, right?
No, we don't just do deltas. Wait, what
we do?
Oh, this is why you have to have the
separate prediction model, right?
This is why you have to have the
separate dynamics prediction model.
How a person thinks and apply that to RL
research.
Oh, I see. Um,
it's tough because like one biological
analog is not the only path to
intelligence and two you're confined by
like what you can do in a way that is
efficient with hardware that we have or
can build.
So there is going to be a fundamental
difference between
what we build in silicon and what we
build in biology or what exists in
biology. Um just due to the difference
in the types of operations we can
perform.
What do you think about TSOing Twitch
coding? I haven't really seen any of his
content other than like random tweets.
Seems cool.
I know people often think of like C as
this super hardcore language or whatever
and it's not. It's like C is my favorite
language. It's just super simple. It's
fast and it's easy. That's it.
Like it's it's gotten like a weird
reputation from people massively over
complicating things.
Like any modern programming language is
way more of a mess than just writing
stuff in C.
It's a second
bit second.
Um,
that can't possibly be true.
that. Yeah, that can't possibly be
how you implement the algorithm in
Python.
Um,
you really can't get away from Python in
deep learning. It's a faster prototyping
language for this type of crap mostly
because of how much stuff has been
optimized for AI like specifically.
But like technically, yeah, it like the
code for this really would not look much
worse um with a well-designed C back
end.
Material science. I need to get back to
the material science. I really want to.
It's the application I am the most
excited about, frankly. I I've just been
stuck doing a bunch of other things.
Like it's really if I get this to work
for context like
it will just like puffer will just solve
everything basically if I get a good
version of this and puffer like
this basically will bridge the remaining
capabilities gap like qualitative gap
and everything from there is just
optimization.
add scholarship on this 10 bits per
second there. It can't be 10 bits per
second peak. It maybe average like
you're just not doing anything most of
the time or something, but like
literally just playing a like playing an
online game or something, there's way
more than 10 bits a second worth of
information that you have to process.
You could say that like you like you can
compress things into 10 bits of
decisions or something, but that's not
the same as there being 10 bits of
information
being processed
science problem solely and solve
something.
I mean, I would like to, but the reality
of it is, right, Andrew, that the most
practical thing for me to do uh if I
really want to push RL forward
is to throw this on the first problem
that makes uh that brings in a
sufficiently large contract to fund a
large expansion of Puffer as a lab.
That is the most practical thing for me
to do and of course not get so
distracted just chasing that that I
don't actually do research. Duh. Um,
but it does need to scale just a little
bit.
They're distinct from the brain. Well,
then that's like saying there's like
you're not counting the encoder as part
of it, but the encoder is part of it,
right?
How do we do
uh protein folding is a sequence
modeling problem as far as I've seen at
the moment. It would be more like it
would be more like molecular
interactions like multimolecule
interactions.
We reached out to Google. What for
Andrew?
How much faster do you think puffer
would be if the algorithm were also
implemented? a little bit not a ton
I mean frankly there are a whole bunch
of it's not about seed like verse Python
necessarily it's more so about
it's more so about like the number of
CUDA compilation steps and graph calls
and like kernel launches and other
things it's there are other there are
other bottlenecks that I could optimize
from either language first that you
would hit that like way more significant
Where's this thing?
MX
given age, predict Z.
You need dynamics.
You're hidden as well. Not you.
Yeah, but like they're just simply not
going to do that, right?
this. Let me see if this runs.
We'll have to check every
dynamics
code.
play.
Ah,
drones.
No, they're uh we have Finn and Sam are
still doing stuff on that.
Look, I basically I went to RLC. I
thought about a bunch of research. I got
a bunch of ideas. Now, I'm spending a
couple of weeks uh splitting my time
between making sure existing clients are
happy and
um you know, working on research
follow-ups.
Doesn't mean stuff's abandoned. It just
means I'm like working on
I'm trying to like see if like I'm
looking for core improvements right now.
The heck did reward happen?
a bit about RL while researching LLMs
repeat tweet of the paper award and
streams inspired me to study RL from
fundamentals watching Sutton's videos on
future AI.
I don't know if Sutton is the best
person to watch on uh
on that anymore. Definitely for
theoretical fundamentals if you're
interested in a mathematical point of
view. Um, it depends what you're
interested in. To be fair,
my guide covers a lot of the like
engineering and practical stuff as well
as like what to read to like to start
working on things that actually work
quite quickly.
Though I uh admittedly I don't really
take
is I don't pay that much attention to a
lot of the foundational stuff because a
lot of it just doesn't translate into
algorithms that consistently work.
Okay, this runs. I'm sure this doesn't
train, but it runs
a decent clip as well.
Okay, so we'll start going through this.
Needs to be action conditioned. need to
like sanity check a ton of things. But
hopefully we can get something
directionally correct relatively soon.
It's already 3:15.
Got about another three hours, a little
less, to work on this today.
Research is tough, you know. You really
you end up just putting in a ton of time
for uh
I mean like things just don't work
consistently. Be right back.
can you suggest some people to follow
for staying with the latest RL and AI?
Those are two very different questions.
Um, there really are not that many
people
in uh like doing this type of RL work
these days, frankly.
like you're best served just like
checking out all the stuff people are
building in the puffer discord. I mean,
I can tell you the people who were very
very influential in RL who don't really
do a ton of it anymore, right?
As well as like people who've done good
stuff in the past, but
these days
there really isn't a ton of um
a ton of this type of work.
That's why I'm doing it right.
I guess deep mind still like deep mind
is still doing some.
There a few labs,
not a ton.
If we follow this exactly
what we
Yeah, it's like 90 plus% LLM stuff these
days, even in RL, which is unfortunate.
I'm still holding the fort down here,
you know.
in ' 08 and 09. Oh, it definitely didn't
work at all back then
doing like tabular Q-learning.
Didn't even get a EQN back then.
cuz actions.
Oh, cuz you zeroed me.
That's a pretty new I mean that's a
pretty new development, right?
Oh, cuz this dummy me.
Yeah. It turns out that like if you're
smart and you don't want to like try to
write a smart algorithm, you just want
to like hack your own knowledge into it,
you can make stuff that's very
convincing if you spend enough time.
Okay, I'm sure this is still not working
right, but
at least now we have the pieces in
place.
What do you see as next step to moving
past transformer?
I don't know if that's an architecture
limitation though. Why would you think
it's an architecture limitation?
That doesn't seem like a clear
That doesn't seem like a clear-cut
thing.
goal now I think is to just do the
simplest simplest possible
world model formulation that would work
from here.
Let me think about what that would be.
Not that far off of this.
I guess it would be
let's do like onestep predictions
to make sure we haven't just completely
broken everything, right?
What do you mean it doesn't emulate how
we experience the world? How the heck do
you know how we experience the world?
>> Oh. Um,
that would be mostly like memory
presumably.
I mean, that's more how you present
information honestly than anything.
away froming world models. Here you're
doing it in pop li attempting to
things are a freaking mess. Here's
what we'll do.
do it this way. Right. So this now
here we'll comment this one.
And so we go through like this.
And we're going to do a
state reset. that
like this. We get the state reset,
right?
So, we should kind of do this anyways up
There.
The idea here is that um
ah
so the idea here is that we do onestep
predictions.
The onestep predictions
should be very easy to learn.
That's um
S
Latin
tricky.
We just want this what? Batched.
Unbatched.
matter.
That doesn't
RL
VR.
Wait, what? RLVR world.
I don't know what that is.
Like which one?
I really am not working like crazy long
days, but holy hell, this stuff is
exhausting. Yeah, it turns out that when
you like get up, do three hours of
exercise, and then spend the whole day
doing like hard research,
it's kind of tiring.
Exhausted.
Out of here, bot.
Oops.
Discord.
Holy Discord.
So,
why did this open in full screen like
that?
Did you put it in dev?
Oh.
Uh,
I I actually What the heck was this?
Somebody linked me this.
Wait, what?
Did I even look at this?
Was I even looking at this thing?
Yeah, I don't have any recollection of
this.
Are you sure that's the one I was
looking at?
Like, I have no recollection of that at
all.
I don't like I've never read that.
looks similar.
Not sure.
Yeah, I don't think that was the same
one.
Okay. So, this is like
this is the simplest thing that uh
should work if we have it implemented
correctly. I think
this house from freaking freezing me.
I'm going to take two minutes warm
myself back up. I for some reason I
forgot that I had the AC on like 65
degrees.
Freezing.
All right.
Forgot that I had the AC like on for
cold. I'm like wondering like why is it
so cold today? Oh, because I literally
have my AC set to arctic.
All right.
So,
yeah. See, this is now this is now a
thing that should be
like relatively straightforward, right?
Go actually to the original
P4.
Force super slow
for loop.
I mean, I guess another thing we could
do
as a uh a sanity check would Okay.
Um,
well, FBR, I think that it's possible
that with optimization, we could get
them to be
it's possible we could get them to be
equal wall clock,
but like way more scalable, right?
like no, we should definitely be able to
get them to be equal
equal wall clock.
It's not about if the tech gets there.
It's if I can get it to be if I can get
an implementation to work and then it's
a matter of me sitting down and doing a
bunch of engineering.
No like speculative portion about other
people having to contribute the things
hard though.
Yeah. So, if this doesn't work, then
it's just like we've broken stuff,
right?
Uh, I'm trying to debug it. That guy
normally a bigger
wouldn't put it past you. Yeah. No, I'm
very confident if I can just get
something if I can get this into a space
where it's like doing reasonably
I can take it pretty far from there. The
main thing is just like
getting something that roughly
approximates
reasonable result.
So
there's some other thing I could do
for log prop val right
well first of all we can just comment
all this dynamics crap
now
and then we just try
have this sequential
roll out thing
action reward log prop and value
uh entropy would be a cool thing to
have. Don't you think
I mean, it is pretty much a matter of
how stubborn I'm going to be about
making this thing work, right? Like, I
think we should be able to get something
our actions in this
I'd like to just bring this
more in line with Um,
I think the best thing I can do is just
bring this more in line with
like something simpler and ser.
I'm going to modify this. So, this is
doing like a bunch of non-standard weird
things.
easiest thing to do, frankly.
Play with this until it's something that
I know will work
and
and make this freaking
Action.
Okay.
And
This still doesn't work. Then we have we
have some severe problems.
You look tired. Well, that's what
happens when you get up, do 3 hours of
exercise, and then do hard research all
day.
Progress must be made, though.
Yep.
I'm trying to get back in decent running
shape
without completely screwing up my knee.
We'll see.
And yeah, of course, the research is I
mean, if we get something of this
variety working, it would be a big deal.
It's just tricky.
logits value policy
by date.
doing the same research. I mean,
screwing around with um world models in
some capacity. Yeah. Like doing exactly
what I'm doing with the backing of all
the puffer infra like not at all.
Like the puffer infra is what makes this
remotely doable.
Otherwise like any new project you want
to do is just like months and months and
months
offer li and open AI gem about a factor
of a thousand in speeds. Also, Jim
doesn't really do anything other than
like give you an environment interface.
Puffer gives you all the other things.
Like there's no training implementation
in OpenAI Gem.
There's like it's really just like an
API for some built-in environments.
If you play with puffer li right, you'll
see you can actually just train stuff in
seconds.
Thank you.
Ah, wait. Hang on. This is the problem
right here.
still learning basics of statistics and
deep learning RL is still so far for me.
I mean, honestly, you really don't need
to spend a whole bunch of time studying
statistics to get into RL.
Like, my guide is pretty accessible.
The guide I have on on X is pretty
accessible. It gets you like actually
implementing environments and getting RL
training within like the first several
hours,
first few hours really if you already
know how to program, you're like
competent,
try to understand everything. The
problem is that you can't in RL because
like you can go study the fundamentals
and think you understand stuff but then
you'll go to actually implement things
and it won't work. Like the fundamentals
don't actually translate to what works
in practice. There's a very very big
gap.
You're way better served like learning
what works and what doesn't and then
filling in theory gaps along the way as
you're interested.
Let's just do
let's
comment all these extra freaking
layers out.
Now this we'll make this like equivalent
basically to what we had before.
Now if this doesn't work right then
there's just bugs.
It should be equivalent to what we had
before. Very different form. You encode
observations and actions. Want
good
here.
Take in your Z.
So you get lo
How's Dreamerland Spencer? This is
exhausting.
This is completely exhausting.
Cheers.
Oh, I just I wonder is this
go here?
Goes here, right?
Now What?
So bloody complicated.
Just make sure I'm not handling
Let me just make sure I'm not handling
action wrong.
have your encode
cell
actor and the value, right?
Be fine.
I suppose we should probably put
this little yellow back.
That does anything.
No.
Spencer, I was trying except like
obviously without the dumb tricks that
don't work. This paper is incredibly
complicated. Most of the ref reference
code is like unusably bad.
They're like a whole bunch of problems.
Yeah, this honestly might be uh
honestly I kind of want to just commit
this and then start fresh from what I
know now.
A new branch.
No, we're not doing pixel [__]
It's useless if it's only pixels.
Like, it's it's actually just useless if
it only works on pixels.
It's really hard to trust anything other
than that the result exists. I mean,
it's literally like it's the equivalent
of like if you go to buy a house
and then you like open the boiler room
or whatever. Uh or like you go to the
basement and like all the columns
holding up the house are just like
broken and taped together with duct tape
and the boiler's got like all patches on
it and is like you know made of a whole
bunch of different materials that are
just like patched together over 50
years. It's like
like damn you lived like this.
It's crazy.
Okay, so this is
the stupid simple loop version.
This is the simple loop version. Uh note
that it's three times slower than
puffer.
That's why um nobody uses LSTMs and RLS
because they all do it wrong. and to
kind of figure out how to do it fast.
Otherwise, you do it like this and it's
slow.
Did you write that CLI with Rich? Yes.
How does it say at the top of the
terminal? Uh, manually clearing the
terminal every time it prints.
One of the main things I'm very happy
with the Puffer UX.
Don't use clot at all. Go to research.
Most suitable.
It just gets in my way and waste my
time. Man,
these models are not actually smart.
Best model is this one. You see this
autocomplete that I get? Super Maven.
Really stupid model. Really small,
really fast. Saves me typing.
I do noticeably miss that when uh you
know if I'm not using it. I can code
without it. It just you know it's
obnoxious having to uh to type so much
more. But
that's about it.
Okay. So
succeeded in adding a couple auxiliaries
without breaking anything. Good.
Dynamics have to go.
Well, sequence model has to take into
account the action, right?
Dynamics has to predict
the next Z.
We have encoder. We need dynamic. We
need to add dynamics.
do this. And
Damn it.
just to keep you on your toes.
Bulletin
with off policy. This is an alternative
to off policy something. Um they serve
the same purpose in a sense.
uh off policy at the very least has been
downgraded in my mind to less promising
than this.
Like I found like a lot of the
fundamental limitations of it. I think
like basically
you need a clean formulation that
actually handles bootstrapping in a
reasonable way
and I haven't seen one.
in bootstrapping.
The framing of it,
it just doesn't work.
Like, it just straight up doesn't work
in Offball.
Right.
So what we do is
use See?
11 hours of work. Better check on copper
lib.
Uh, no, there have not been any major
developments. Mostly me fighting this
crap.
Most of me just fighting this crap, man.
and let me read that in a second.
What do you think of applied projects
neural data in RL
neural data
like actual brain data
working on tuning hyperparameters the
model while it's learning with intrinsic
neural data
exploration based on how the human
neural data is used
where
so like where are you going to get that
data in real time the whole thing with
RL right, is like the thing can train
like 10,000x faster and just suck up way
more data than a human can. As soon as
you put a human in the loop, like yeah,
there's work on this and it like you can
use human input in some ways. I haven't
seen human neural data, but you can use
human input in some ways. You just like
everything gets slowed massively down.
Use a human to guide the founder lib.
Why should I slow the model down to two
steps per second by training a million
steps per second? Yeah, I mean this is
kind of the key thing, right? Like if
you can ever just turn your domain into
a high data regime domain, that's the
easiest thing.
I change it to hyper prams.
Um I mean there's all sorts of automated
stuff you can do with hyper prams if you
want to go that direction even
interactively.
Uh you probably you can look at like
populationbased training. I don't
necessarily think it's a great algorithm
but it does kind of do this on the-fly
tuning thing. Thank you for the reminder
bet. Yes, do star puffer lip for
everyone watching. It really really
helps me out.
Join the Discord as well if you want to
get involved with everyone the research
or on uh building out environments
five. Well, this actually gives us
Let's just see if this totally crashes
or not.
Nothing has made it work that guy. This
is me stripping me. This is me like
trying again from starting from 3 0 and
incrementally building up towards uh an
implementation that looks like a world
model thing. This is not a world model
working.
This is at the moment just like a slow
version of puffer lib with a bunch of
auxiliary losses in there.
um
that like the code structure is such
that it's very close to how it will have
to be for initial world model stuff
the world.
Um,
not really because you have to train
pixel models
which are freaking slow.
If somebody comes up with an alternative
to comms that like big stack of cons
that's fast, then sure.
freaking starving today. Well, holy.
Um,
that's catching up with me.
Okay. So,
don't get enough information based obs
date. No,
there's no way in hell that it's a pixel
specific thing.
There's just no way.
It wouldn't make any sense for it to
Okay.
why I can't you can't reproduce pixel
obs like you like this is already a
factor of four slowdown I'm not going to
take a factor of 100 slowdown and just
have the experiments fundamentally not
work in a reasonable amount of time.
Okay. So, this is something.
This is something. I think
if I'm correct, this should be now using
the learned one-step reward model.
So, what I can do is I can swap in
like a onestep world model and learn
through that
and then I can ablade it upwards
is that the baseline was done with
pixels. Yeah, but the baseline is a
complete hot mess that like
there's just no way you're going to be
able to go do anything from that
starting point. It's like a total mess.
There's also like no way in hell I'm
going to be able to reproduce the paper.
It's a like I'm going to be able to get
a world model type thing and iterate on
it.
type thing look like.
Um
it looks like you collect your data like
normal
but then instead of actually you you
train you train a supervised model using
the data and then you use the supervised
models to like hallucinate game data and
then you do RL on the hallucinated data.
That's what it looks like.
apparently. Bet.
Apparently
And just to show that this is actually
doing something, if I multiply this by
zero, this fails, right?
How the hell is it learning without
rewards?
Oh, it tells the values.
It should be way better like this,
right?
What's the solve? Uh, baseline 90 mil.
can make it faster as well.
Huh.
It's actually just like not using reward
at all. Is it
crazy
that out?
time. Is it 5?
Technically, I have another hour before
I got to go get dinner.
Pretty tired, but okay. Um,
think
do we want
do we want to use like um
onestep obs replacement here?
This surely doesn't work, right?
and out. Okay. So, can I do this one
step somehow?
I'm kind of out of steam. I'm not going
to lie.
That's hard.
I try to solve this one last thing
though.
How it is with this
Even the onestep prediction, if I've
done this correctly, is kind of hard to
And there are a lot of explanations for
that, right?
I do think I am going to call it a
little early today though. I am like
exhausted from this a lot of work. Um
goal will be come back tomorrow.
Uh see
what we can do with this stuff
generally.
And um
I don't know. We'll basically decide
like how much effort I think it's going
to take before we could get something
like this working.
I would think that there should be
like there should be some reasonable
formulation of a world model that we can
get working decently well quickly. Maybe
I'm wrong though.
Uh, anyways, folks who've been tuning in
all day,
thanks for stopping by.
Uh, let go grab a couple quick things
from over here.
If you're interested in reinforcement
learning or my work generally, helper.ai
for all the things, start the GitHub
helps me out a ton. It's free. Join the
Discord to get involved with development
or to learn more. Follow me on X for a
whole bunch of RL content, including
articles you can't find anywhere else.